Abstract:

Social development, national construction and reform have contributed to the rapid development of vocational education. Since vocational education has become a powerful lever in China’s social and economic development we should note the dilemma of the absence of effective classroom management in vocational education. Hence, our current priority is to solve this dilemma. However, the domestic research into classroom management in vocational education is still relatively weak. The references into studies are mostly from abroad, and there is a lack of China based field research.

In response to the situation outlined above, the thesis firstly defines some vital concepts with regards to classroom, management, classroom management, training classes in practical education and training classes in vocational education. After an in-depth analysis and positioning, the core concept of the study has been defined as “Classroom Training Management in Vocational Education”. Classroom Training Management in Vocational Education is a system of regulation applied to practical training of internship practice and graduation practice which require an appropriate approach and strategy. This includes intermediation of interaction between teacher and student, with the basic aim that the internship practice and graduation practice are carried out smoothly and eventually facilitate the coordinated operation of classroom practical training. This would not only accelerate students’ growth, but also teachers’ development and furthermore lead to a dynamic process of constant improvement.

On this basis the thesis proceeds with the research status of classroom management studies and vocational education training studies both domestic and abroad and carries out a detailed research overview. In terms of classroom management study, the foreign research has been carried out for a relatively long time period and the research systems are quite complete. The research discusses the implication, model and research area of classroom management. With regards to the model research in particular, the research abroad presents a behavior modification model, decisive training model, logic consequence model, teacher efficacy training model, reality therapy model, intellect training model, Jones model and group dynamic model, etc. All the models share an emphasis on democratic participatory classroom management; management principles rejecting the traditional classroom punishment and rather focus on the students’ subjectivity and own initiative. In relation to the research areas, the analysis covers content category, methods category, orientation category, etc. The domestic achievements in the research are mainly reflected in a series of publications and professional course specializations that were applied in classroom management research. Though multidisciplinary research has shown the innovative research significance, the research abroad provides the main reference points for the domestic research which is now in need of its own theoretical findings and research practice.

In terms of research into practical training education, the foreign studies are mainly German in origin and is focus on exploring the diversified cross-enterprise training center with the aim of the proof and reform of its developing model from practice. The domestic research on the subject is, however, not complete. Though the research explores the points of view of highly skilled personnel training, the vocational education curriculum development, regional economics, engineering based construction, vocational training research and Shanghai model, the research findings have been formulated, basing to the most part, on common sense. Only the elementary study has been implemented, and there is a lack of practical research effectiveness.

Considering the insufficient domestic research into classroom training management in vocational education, the thesis illustrates the research discoveries both in theory and in practice. “Situational cognition”, “Recognition”, “Capability Standard”, “Resource Integration”, and theoretical tools are applied to explore the theoretical starting point of classroom training management in vocational education. To be specific, firstly, Situational cognition theory ---- classroom training management in vocational education relies on real life situations. Secondly, Recognition theory ---- effective classroom training management in vocational education would not work without self-identification and social-identification. Thirdly, Capability standard theory ---- is the starting point and fundamental objective of classroom training management in vocational education. Fourthly, Resource integration theory ---- the key point of classroom training management in vocational education is the objective requirement in optimizing the integration of vocational education and the training resources.

Regarding practice, the study aims to achieve the following objectives: to guide the internship practice management and graduation practice management in Economics and Management major, Engineering major, etc, in the vocational college. To bridge, with suitable matches, vocational training education and workplace requirements in industries and enterprises, to enhance students’ occupational qualities and vocational ability when graduating from vocational college. The research findings are suitable for the application to the classroom management in applied undergraduate education settings. Research methodology include interviews and questionnaire surveys along with individual case studies of certain teachers and students and participating classes.

The innovation and expectation of the research seeks to study classroom training management in vocational education with an openness to classroom training. The classroom training in this research is considered a systematic management study and therefore the study breaks with the limitations of the conventional teaching perspective and to conclude the classroom training management in vocational education in a theoretical sublimation.

